Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an **object** storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. This means customers of all sizes and industries can use it to store and protect any amount of data for a range of use cases, such as websites, mobile applications, backup and restore, archive, enterprise applications, IoT devices, and big data analytics. Amazon S3 provides easy-to-use management features so you can organize your data and configure finely-tuned access controls to meet your specific business, organizational, and compliance requirements. 


>Amazon S3 is designed for 99.999999999% (11 9's) of durability, and stores data for millions of applications for companies all around the world.

>Amazon Guarantess 99.9 % availability

## Basics of S3:
* Files can be 0 byte to 5 TB.
* unlimited storage
* S3, names must be unique globally. universal namespace
* Successful upload file = **HTTP 200 code**
* S3 is **Object Based**, objects consits of:
    * key (name)
    * value(data) 
    * version id
    * Metadata(data abput data you store)
    * Subresources (Access Control lists, Torrent)

## Data Consistency 
* Read after Write Consistency for puts of new objects, you can view the file immediately once you create it
* Eventual Consistency for updates(puts and deletes). if you update existing file or delete a file and read it immediately, you may get older version or you may not. It can take a little time to propogate for object changes.


## S3 Features
* Tiered Storage classes
   * S3 Standard: 99.99 % Availibility, 99.99999999999 % Durability
   * S3 IA(infrequently Accessed): data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed
   * S3 One Zone - IA: lower Cost option for infrequent accessed data placed in one AZ
   * S3 Intelligent Tiering: optimize costs by automatically moving data to the most cost effective access tier
   * S3 Glacier: Data Archieing. secure, durable, low cost. Retreiveal time minutes to hours
   * S3 Glacier Deep Archieve: Lowet cost storage where a retrievel time of 12 hours is acceptable
* Lifecycle Management
* Versioning
* Encryption
* MFA Delete
* Secure your data using access control list and bucket policies
* S3 Charges
   * Storage, Requests, Storage Management Pricing, Data Trasfer, Transfer Acceleration(uses cloud front edge location) and cross region replication 

